ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
Madam Chen.
You're late.
You'll have to drink
a penalty toast later.
Madam Chen.
Madam Liu.
Ladies, look at Madam Song's attire today.
She's looking more and more noble.
You flatter me, Madam Liu.
It's truly an honor to be invited
by all of you today.
‎WIFE OF MERCHANT CHEN,
‎WIFE OF REGISTRAR HU
‎WIFE OF COUNTY MILITARY OFFICER LIU
An imperial green jade bracelet.
It's truly rare.
Just look at the translucency
and the color.
It must be worth a fortune.
Let's walk and talk.
Come on, ladies.
This bracelet
was simply a meeting gift
from the magistrate's wife.
-No wonder. It's from the bride's mother!
-Yes.
-Ah!
-Excuse me.
You clumsy girl.
You… What are you doing here?
You didn't follow me here
to cause trouble, did you?
What, you bought this place?
You're allowed here, but I'm not?
You know each other?
No, I don't know her.
Madam Liu, let me tell you.
My son's marriage
was personally arranged by the magistrate.
The magistrate comes from
a distinguished scholarly family.
-Do come more often.
-They value character and refinement.
The betrothal gifts
followed ancient custom.
The bride's dowry was generous.
In marriage,
-what matters is a proper match in status.
-Enjoy. Just call if you need anything.
If someone lacks character and refinement,
such a marriage must never happen.
-Exactly.
-Am I right?
The magistrate is truly generous.
Congratulations.
Sold your son for a fine price, did you?
-You…
-This…
Cursed girl.
Let's hurry inside.
Don't let someone so vulgar ruin our mood.
Right? Come along.
Who is she talking about?
-She's talking nonsense.
-What?
I offer you both a toast.
You are most seasoned
in the ways of hospitality.
You clearly know many people, Ms. Yu.
We welcome guests from every quarter.
Harmony yields prosperity.
In business,
it never hurts to know more friends.
Please enjoy yourselves.
I must attend to other guests.
Ms. Yu, what's wrong?
You don't look well.
Just now, inside,
that man brushed my hand.
I don't know why, but that brief touch
frightened me.
Another guest trying to take advantage?
How shameless.
It's not exactly about that.
I just feel like I've seen him before.
Who was that young lady
you were talking to?
Oh, her? Her name is Fan Changyu.
She was the notorious curse of Xigu Alley.
The fortune-tellers all say
she was born under
a once-in-a-thousand-years calamity star.
She not only brought misfortune
upon her parents,
she even caused her uncle's death.
The matter even ended up in court.
And
just this month,
a group of bandits
broke into her home in the dead of night.
Several people were killed.
The whole of Lin'an knows about it.
Who knows
how many men have touched
those hands of hers.
No wonder she became so composed
and utterly without decorum.
I searched for years and never found her.
I never expected her
to be thriving here in Lin'an
and associating with so many men.
Perhaps it's only business dealings.
Still making excuses for her?
I wouldn't dare.
She left false clues
about fleeing beyond the frontier.
I searched for six years in vain.
I never imagined that in just six years
she would establish herself
and open such a grand restaurant.
She is not to be underestimated.
Understood.
I will investigate
her connections at once.
And investigate the men
around her as well.
Whoever has touched her,
cut off the hand that did it.
Bring it to me.
Yes.
I will carry out your orders at once.
Why would Ms. Yu hire someone like her?
Nothing is worse for a restaurant
than bad luck.
Perhaps Ms. Yu
doesn't know her background.
That's how a jinx got in.
-Ladies.
-Ms. Yu.
What jinx?
Yixiang Restaurant
does not serve such a dish.
Ms. Yu,
we truly mean well.
That jinx brings death wherever she goes!
Really?
From what I heard,
she supported her scholar fiancé
for years,
and after he passed the provincial exam,
he broke off the engagement.
If you ask me,
that ungrateful fiancé and his mother
were the real curse.
Not only did it harm that young lady,
it ruined her parents as well.
Then perhaps all that talk
of her being a jinx is just rumor.
Madam Liu is right.
Mrs. Fan has been
raising her little sister on her own.
Ever since she came to Yixiang Restaurant,
my braised pork
has been selling better than ever.
If you ask me, she's a lucky charm.
But Madam Song,
who told you she was a jinx?
Just hearsay.
Why must women make things difficult
for one another?
Spreading gossip all day
will invite retribution.
You're educated and sensible.
How could you stoop to such filthy gossip?
You must have been misled.
Why hasn't all the food been served?
I'll go hurry them.
Ladies, please enjoy.
Of course.
You didn't know?
That proprietress Yu Qianqian
was with child before she was ever wed.
The child she once carried…
No one even knew who the father was.
"Why must women make things difficult
for one another?" How noble.
If you ask me,
she's no different from Fan Changyu.
A shameless woman with no virtue.
Let's not allow idle gossip
to spoil our gathering.
Quite right.
Let's get back to it.
A flock of chattering gossips.
According to them,
the child may be hiding
inside the restaurant.
The one who talked the most…
Teach her a lesson.
Yes.
-Madam Liu.
-You think I'm drunk?
You are drunk.
Then I must trouble you
to put in a few good words for me
before the magistrate.
Don't worry. Leave it to me.
Lecturing me about retribution?
If there truly is divine retribution,
it should fall on that wretched girl.
If Heaven truly has eyes,
it should strike that wretched girl--
Mind your words before you speak.
Watch that filthy mouth of yours.
If you speak such nonsense again,
you won't get off so lightly.
Yes, yes… I understand.
Madam!
‎FANG'S TEA SHOP
PORK TONGUE
PORK BELLY
FAN'S BRAISED MEAT
Any more pig ears?
All sold out.
-Come back tomorrow.
-All right.
The New Year is nearly upon us.
Our braised pork is selling
better than ever.
You've had it hard.
Not as hard as you.
You do so much each day.
Earning a living is never easy.
Still, though our braised pork sells well,
if we want to grow further,
we could design an emblem
for our braised pork.
An emblem?
But my braised pork is either
sliced and plated for serving
or wrapped in oiled paper for takeaway.
What use would an emblem be?
Extremely useful.
Walk with me.
Look up.
The shops downstairs,
the Fang family's tea,
the Li family's wine,
don't they each have their emblem?
And each emblem is distinct.
HUA
You can tell at a glance whose shop it is.
Once you decide on the emblem,
hang a cloth banner next to the signboard.
So it can be seen from afar.
Then prepare more oiled paper
and print the emblem on it.
Wrap the meat in the printed paper.
Our name will soon surpass
the Wang family's.
Very well.
I'll find you
a scholar with decent calligraphy.
Let's get this done today.
Qian.
My husband writes as well.
I'll ask him.
Is his calligraphy any good?
Excellent.
Truly.
Even better than his face.
That good?
What, is he the reincarnation
of Wang Xizhi or Zhong You?
Wang Xi…
Though I don't know who they are,
I'd say he's just as good.
Changyu,
I truly admire your spirit.
FAN
Your handwriting is so refined.
I agree. In all my years
running this shop,
I've never seen handwriting so fine.
Remarkable indeed.
So beautifully written. Ms. Yu, look.
FAN
It's beautiful.
Do you need a break?
No need. I'll continue.
Changyu.
Your husband writes…
Remarkably well.
Better than Wang…
Whatever his name was. Far better.
All right. Beauty lies
in the eye of the beholder.
Exactly. Anything Zheng writes or paints
is splendid to me.
Fuling, take Ning upstairs for a bite.
Whatever you like.
Thank you, Pretty Lady.
Such a sweet girl. Go ahead.
Changyu.
You've truly found a fine husband,
skilled in both letters and arms.
You flatter me.
Think nothing of it.
From now on,
we must stand together
and show those gossipers
that we women can achieve
great things too.
FAN
-I want some.
-Me too.
Qian, you're incredible.
You said the emblem would draw a crowd,
and look at them all.
You're mistaken.
The one drawing them in is your husband.
FAN'S BRAISED MEAT
Why are you still staring?
Go help.
Go on.
Let me help.
Here.
Isn't this what you ordered?
It was just wrapped.
It was.
Is his different?
Yes, the one he handed out
smells even better.
-I want some too!
-Me too.
-Give it here!
-Give it here
-Mine! Give it here.
-I want some too!
Here. This is yours.
Come on, come on!
It's all right, it's all right.
You've done it wrong.
No rush, sir.
No need to hurry.
‎-He's quite dashing.
‎-So handsome.
Too small. I cut you another piece.
Here.
What's it to you?
Stay out of it.
-I want some too.
-Me too.
-Is there any left?
I shouldn't have brought you.
-Give it to me.
-I want some too. I'll pay double.
-Me too.
FAN'S BRAISED MEAT
Any more left?
Sorry, we're sold out for today.
The ones in the back?
-They're just scraps.
-Scraps are fine.
Will you sell them to me?
As long as you're paying.
All right. Take it.
Your hands are greasy.
Don't smudge the paper.
The writing is excellent.
Wrapping meat with this
is sheer waste.
Truly excellent.
Sheer waste?
What does that mean?
Let's close up.
GUESTS FROM ACROSS THE REALM
I'm not drunk.
Take care, Mr. Wu.
Qianqian.
Wait in the carriage.
Mr. Wu, have you enjoyed yourself?
It's late. Time to go home.
Why should I go home?
Who doesn't know
I'm a regular here?
-Mr. Wu.
-Come.
Have a few cups with me.
I'm only saying this for your own good.
If you return too late,
Mrs. Wu will make a scene again.
Don't use that tigress to threaten me.
I'll say this.
If you don't please me today,
don't even think about
running this little restaurant in peace.
Mr. Wu, have some dignity.
Get lost.
A mere maid dares speak to me like this?
-Who taught you such insolence?
-Mr. Wu, calm down.
I'll drink with you.
Bring the wine.
Drink.
A scoundrel like you
dares cause trouble here?
I've handled your kind before.
-Send him back to Mrs. Wu.
-Yes.
Let go!
Who do you think you are?
Let go. Let go!
Do you know who I am?
You wretch!
Are you hurt?
Take this, Mr. Qi.
Master, how should we deal with him?
As Ms. Yu instructed,
hand him over to Mrs. Wu.
Remember, keep him alive.
Do not cause trouble for Ms. Yu.
-Yes.
Ms. Yu, you don't look well.
Were you frightened?
I'm fine.
Thank you, Mr. Qi, for stepping in.
I'll take my leave.
Ms. Yu, are you all right?
His manner is somewhat similar.
But he had no scar on his face.
And his voice wasn't like this.
Perhaps I'm being paranoid.
How could he possibly be in Lin'an?
Who is it?
No one.
FRAGRANCE TRAVELS FAR
These pastries were prepared just for you.
My sister eats a great deal as well.
She can eat three meals' worth
in a single sitting.
Her rice bowl is as large
as a soup tureen.
She's truly impressive.
Have you ever seen a pig slaughtered?
No.
My sister can knock a pig unconscious
with a single slap.
Really?
I've never seen anyone
as formidable as your sister.
-Fuling, come give us a hand.
-Coming.
I'm stepping out for a moment.
I'll be back shortly.
Thief.
I… I'm no thief.
I don't care who you are.
You're sneaking food.
I'll tell my sister and Pretty Lady.
-Don't.
-Changyu, someone's stealing--
Please don't.
Who said you could steal food?
This is my house.
My mother owns this place.
Why shouldn't I eat?
You're Pretty Lady's son?
What's your name? How old are you?
My name is Yu Bao'er.
I'm 6 years old. How about you?
Have some more.
I'll just have this one.
Mother won't let me eat too much.
Too many sweets will rot my teeth.
What's that?
It's…
It's when little worms
eat away at your teeth.
It hurts terribly.
Worms in your teeth?
Like cabbage worms? Or rice weevils?
I don't know.
I've never had one.
Then I'd better not eat too much.
Shall we go outside and play?
Mother says my fate is unusual.
I shouldn't see too many people.
That way,
I'll stay safe.
Then, let's play hide-and-seek.
Don't touch that.
-This child…
-Go away!
-Forgive us.
-Sorry!
Bao'er?
-Why are you here?
-This way.
-Come on.
-Your mother told you not to run about.
You two, stay put.
What does it matter?
-Just for a moment.
-Then I'll return shortly.
Where did these kids come from?
You're ruining my fun. Get out.
Stop running.
-Stop running.
-Hurry up.
You little brats dare ruin my fun.
Get out of my way.
Ning. Ning.
She's not here.
I'll light the lamps inside for you.
That won't be necessary.
Arrange the wine and dishes as before.
As you wish.
Remember,
no matter when or where,
never presume to decide for me.
Even if the wrong person dies.
Do you understand?
Yes.
I'm so sleepy.
Shh, be quiet.
How is the investigation going?
From what I've learned,
judging by the year she arrived in Lin'an,
she was likely with child
while in your residence.
We still need the nursemaid
brought to Lin'an
to confirm her identity.
Then go at once.
I'll see to it immediately.
Who's there?
FAN'S BRAISED MEAT
Sold out already?
Sold out for today. Come back tomorrow.
All right.
This way.
Make way.
Mr. Li, where did
these soldiers come from?
Clerk Guo mentioned yesterday
that the front lines are desperate
and more grain must be taken.
These are likely
the soldiers sent to collect it.
Wei Xuan's defeat was inevitable.
I just didn't expect it
before the New Year.
In Chongzhou,
farmers were driven to their deaths
over the levies.
They say Governor He of Jizhou
is a just and upright official.
Let's hope he does not act the same.
Grain requisition should not cost
the common people their lives.
It all depends on the authorities now.
What is this?
It's your wages.
No need. You keep it.
No.
We'll split it in half.
You wrote hundreds of wrappers.
I might lose it if I carry it with me.
You keep it for me.
All right, I'll keep it for you.
Very well.
Have you seen Ning?
She's gone.
Those wretches are here again.
-Bao'er!
-Ning!
-Who's Bao'er?
My son.
Fuling!
Ms. Yu, Bao'er isn't in the hidden room.
Ning was just here.
I stepped out for a moment,
and she vanished.
Qi Min.
It must have been him.
Who is that?
He comes here every day.
Every time I see him, my skin crawls.
He must have taken Bao'er.
Let's split up.
All right.
-Has Mr. Qi left?
-I… I don't know.
Ms. Yu, please calm yourself.
Where is Mr. Qi?
He left not long ago.
Did he leave with anyone?
He left in a hurry.
I didn't notice whether he brought anyone.
-Ms. Yu.
-Calm down.
Ms. Yu, are you hurt?
Let me see your hand.
I'll see to it immediately.
Who's there?
Sir, it's me.
Forgive me, sir.
I accidentally knocked over the lampstand.
I hope I didn't disturb you.
Hand it over.
-Go on.
-Enjoy yourselves.
TIANYU ROOM
Is this how I've taught you?
No, Mother. I haven't forgotten.
-I only…
-What?
I only wanted to play.
Do my words mean nothing to you?
Why won't you listen?
Why must you run about?
Qian, your hand is injured.
Let me apply some medicine.
Pretty Lady, please don't be angry.
I fell asleep.
Bao'er was only keeping me company.
I won't blame you.
Then may I still come play with Bao'er?
Get up. The floor is cold.
Mother.
Qian is always so gentle with others.
Why is she so harsh with her own son?
Her reaction today
was harsher than even yours.
I'll go see her again later.
Even the closest friends
have secrets they keep to themselves.
When she's ready, she'll tell you.
I just don't know
what Qian has been through.
Changyu, I'm sleepy.
Ning's sleepy.
Come here, Ning.
Hold on to me.
HE
Dayin commands one capital
and 17 prefectures.
Four lie in the northwest.
PEACE AND PROSPERITY ALONG THE BORDERS
Jinzhou is barren, and Chongzhou
has fallen into rebellion.
Only Jizhou and Yanzhou are left.
Yanzhou
is a military garrison.
Private grain storage and farming
are forbidden there.
That means that in the northwest,
only Jizhou Prefecture can supply grain.
Wei Xuan
clearly thinks the war in Chongzhou
isn't dire enough.
Wei Xuan sent troops
to seize grain by force.
Even the farmers' seed grain was taken.
Let alone planting next spring,
they'll be fortunate
just to survive the winter.
Such actions will forfeit
the people's loyalty.
Why can't we collect grain?
I've ordered an investigation.
A month ago, a group of outside merchants
bought up grain at high prices.
The people kept only
seed grain and coarse grain
and sold the rest.
Buying up grain on the eve of war…
Investigate these merchants at once.
-Understood.
Marquis, it is confirmed.
The man buying grain in the city
is Zhao Xun,
owner of Lin'an Grain.
He colluded with merchants
to buy nearly 200,000 dan of grain
in Yanzhou and Jizhou at high prices.
Zhao Xun?
Has he been close
with anyone of note recently?
Yes. A rice merchant from the capital,
surnamed Qi.
Qi…
Mr. Qi,
Ms. Yu has taken ill with a cold.
She has been resting.
It is truly inconvenient
for her to receive visitors.
We beg your pardon, Mr. Qi.
Since it is merely a cold,
why not accept the medicinal broth
I had a renowned physician prepare?
Not even the fox fur coat?
Not enough to keep out the cold?
Or
is your mistress avoiding me?
Not at all.
She means no discourtesy.
Her illness is quite serious.
How serious is it?
She's not dead, is she?
Tell her,
if I wish to see someone, I will see them.
Ah, Mr. Qi has arrived.
Quickly, bring wine and the finest dishes.
Yes.
Bring the most expensive ones.
You seem quite well.
Just a cold.
It's no grave illness.
The physician said
peace of mind matters most.
No anger, no sorrow.
Avoid unpleasant sights.
That will aid my recovery.
Stay still.
We should keep our distance.
Mr. Qi, have some decorum.
I said, don't move.
Just now your pulse was slow,
as with a chill.
Now it's much faster.
These remedies are exactly what you need.
My thanks, Mr. Qi.
It seems I'm not to your liking.
How could you say that?
There's no such thing.
It's only that I've yet to recover.
I fear I might spoil your appetite
for fine dishes.
I shall take my leave.
Where are you going?
None of your business.
I asked you to take the medicine
for your own sake.
There are plenty of men who care for me.
Go stand in line.
Who?
Let go of me. Let go.
What are you doing?
Mr. Qi's concern for you
is truly extravagant.
He has booked out
the entire Yixiang Restaurant.
Ms. Yu,
this time you may rest properly.
You've booked out my restaurant?
Mr. Zhao told me
they're paying 100 taels a day
to book Yixiang Restaurant for ten days.
For ten days,
everything in Yixiang Restaurant
is mine.
Only 100 taels a day?
Did you not bring enough silver?
At least 1,000 taels a day.
Not a coin less.
Can you afford that?
Is that all?
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
How strange.
That's strange.
Ms. Yu gave no notice.
-Excuse me.
-"We are closed for renovations.
We ask for our patrons' understanding."
Why close so suddenly?
Where is Ms. Yu?
We came to work this morning
and only then learned of it.
We haven't seen her.
That's strange.
Mrs. Man. Mr. Li.
Why is Yixiang closed?
It was booked out by Mr. Qi.
He dismissed us for a few days,
saying he had no need of us.
Even the front door is locked.
In all my years working here,
I've never seen anything like this.
-Indeed.
-What about Qian?
She was ill yesterday.
She must still be inside.
Yes.
I'll go take a look.
The doors are locked.
You're not thinking of scaling…
She really did.
Qian.
-Qian.
-Don't come closer! Help!
Don't come closer. Stay back.
-Qian.
-No…
No.
-Qian.
Stay back.
-Stay back!
No… No!
-Changyu.
-It's all right now.
What's wrong?
What nightmare frightened you so?
I dreamed of a madman.
Stay back!
A masked madman.
Here.
Mrs. Man said Yixiang
was booked by a gentleman named Qi.
What's going on?
No.
I dare not accept this arrangement.
What happened?
I deliberately named 1,000 taels,
and he still agreed.
The more I think, the worse it feels.
So I closed up to avoid him.
Could it be that he simply fancies you?
I don't know.
I just feel
it can't be so simple.
How about I toss him in a sack,
beat him soundly, and make him talk?
Beating him won't solve anything
in the long run.
Guo Dali is proof enough.
Besides, booking
the entire place isn't unlawful.
You are right.
This relentless pestering is unbearable.
I've seen this sort
of money-flinging arrogance before.
If he truly only fancies me,
to make him give up entirely,
we must cut off his hopes at the root.
We must let him think
I am already wed.
Then he'll know to retreat.
But you're not married.
You are.
I am. You're not.
‎THE BOOK OF SONGS: AIRS OF ZHENG
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
‎Subtitle translation by: Peng Peng